hi this mat with appliance parts pros
comm today we'll be showing you how to
repair your plants remember anytime you
work on an appliance make sure it's
unplugged or the circuit breakers are
off so there's no chance of
electrocution also make sure you turn
off your hot and cold water supply in
this video we're gonna show you how to
change the vacuum brake on the Whirlpool
washer it's gonna be a very easy repair
and should only take a few minutes to
show you how to do if you already have
one great if not you can click on the
link below or order from appliance parts
pros.com when you open up the package
inside you'll find the new vacuum break
main reasons you'd be changing this out
as if it sprung some sort of leak either
from a mouse chewing on it or rubbing on
the machine or if one of these mounts
broke off the back wall and you had to
replace it so it mounted properly this
is where the hose hooks up this is where
it mounts onto the back wall and this is
where the water comes out to fill the
tub the first thing we have to do is to
remove the control panel it's usually
held in place by two screws they're
located in either the front or the rear
of the control panel some models have
trim covers that you have to lift off to
gain access to the screws and on other
models they have spring clips they have
to slip a putty knife underneath to
release them once you have your screws
out slide the control panel forward
about 1/2 an inch and lift it back over
the back of the machine with the console
out of the way we have to go ahead and
disconnect the lid switch and remove the
two retaining spring clips that hold the
body to the frame with a flathead
screwdriver pry them out
next we have to go ahead and remove the
body from the frame of the washer so we
have to lift up on the lid and grab the
body right here put your foot against
the body of the machine tilt the body
back to about 45 degrees and carefully
lift it off the washer now that you have
the cabinet off the washer you have
access to inside of the machine to
change out the part the first thing we
have to do is take the hose off so go
ahead and grab your pliers slide the
clamp back a little bit pull the hose
off to remove the vacuum break from the
frame will notice that the openings are
tapered a little bit to the outside so
just grab the lower portion flex it out
lift it up and then pull it down so they
upper tabs release okay here's the old
vacuum break next to the new one if you
already have one of these great if not
you can get it from appliance parts
proz.com to install a vacuum break we're
gonna first hook the upper tabs into the
frame and then spread the lower ones out
and press down so they lock into place
we have to hook up the hose to the new
vacuum brake press it on to the fitting
and then grab your pliers and move the
clamp up to the proper spot now that
we're finished with the repair we can go
ahead and put the cabinet back on the
machine put the cabinet back on the
machine we do it the same way we took it
off grab the cabinet tilt it to a 45
degree angle and swing it back onto the
washing machine
when you're sliding the body back on the
frame make sure you get the lower lip
underneath the frame and then lower down
onto the four locking tabs so just go
ahead and hook the clips onto the back
panel and with your flat head
screwdriver push them down into place
reconnect the lid switch to close up the
console all you do is rotate it forward
over the front of the machine make sure
the locking tabs lock in place pull it
back about a half an inch and replace
the screws now that you have the
machinery assembled you can go ahead and
plug it back in turn the water back on
and take it for a test spin thanks for
joining us for another successful repair
brought to you by appliance parts
pros.com check out our other repair
videos on our site Facebook and YouTube